greetings everyone Laszlo Montgomery
here yeah I know where have I been I've
been working on this the past six months
remember back in July 2014 I finished
the last of those three Edmund Backhouse
episodes
CHP 139 and then I disappeared until
almost Thanksgiving and November working
on that epic ten part history @e series
well I don't know how this history of
Chinese philosophy will stack up against
the subject as brisk and refreshing as
tea
I've been m.i.a for almost half a year
working on these nine episodes that will
be released
starting today one per week and then
after part nine we'll move on to the
next great thing here at the CHP and
I'll try to put some distance behind me
before I go on my next hiatus to work on
some future epic honestly this series
history of Chinese philosophy and its
naysayers a lot of friends of the pod
said have really lies philosophy do you
think that's gonna go down well with the
masses let me just say I didn't get an
overwhelming amount of encouragement to
proceed with the history of Chinese
philosophy and teacup media upper
management
not to mention preferred stockholders
really put up some stiff resistance
about your humble narrator running with
this topic but I'm the decider here so
so on my business card and I have this
theory that well knowing at least a
bearers to bones about Chinese
philosophy as esoteric deep in seemingly
unfathomable as the subject may be well
knowing this stuff is still something
that has some Sciuto some demand out
there and I know this branch I'm about
to climb on to might break under me but
I'm gonna say there's quite a pent-up
demand I myself have always been meaning
to bone up on my own understanding of
Chinese philosophy to the best of my
foggy memory from those four years in
Champaign Urbana Illinois I don't think
I ever took any philosophy classes but
like a lot of you perhaps the the
interest to learn about this subject was
always there
so I was thinking earlier this year who
else in the global CHP community besides
me still has this nagging curiosity to
learn a little about Chinese philosophy
but you know looking to penetrate too
deeply into that vast galaxy of wisdom I
figured there had to be more than a few
of yous who well as far as Chinese
philosophy went at least we're looking
for you know more of a grab-and-go meal
or Vento style
Talton rather than the whole 24 course
banquet with the Hong dosha at the end
so in presenting this topic I wanted to
craft something that made it easier to
learn about what Chinese philosophy was
basically about who were the main
players
what did each of these sages and
scholars say there aren't gonna be any
deep dives into the depths of each
individual philosophers thought so to do
all this I thought I'd trace the
development of Chinese philosophy
through the lives of about three dozen
philosophers some will look at in
greater depth than others and will trace
the historical timeline and see where
philosophy in China began how it
developed and throughout this series
we'll also examine the historic events
going on in the background they were
driving a lot of this thought you know
being the trying to history podcast and
all for many of you who are quite
familiar with the subject or seriously
study Chinese philosophy before you
might find this buffet table here at the
CHP a little too lowbrow perhaps I know
some listeners are gonna grumble that
there during much pork and his cold roe
but despite the plethora if I may use
the p-word of short comings I hope
you'll find this CHP series was at least
worth playing in the background while
you did whatever you were doing it's
also my hope that as Will Durant said in
his introduction to classical Chinese
philosophy that this quote brief in
superficial introduction leads you to
study the Chinese
first themselves as Goethe studied them
and Voltaire and Tolstoy and quote we
look at these ancients and perhaps think
their world was so simple back then they
were so ignorant of so much knowledge
and intellectual discovery that we take
for granted in our day their
circumstances compared to ours in the
21st century what could what could we
possibly have in common with these
people from so long ago well in
examining the things they cared about
and thought about and it turns out we
have quite a bit in common with them the
historic scope of this series will span
the beginnings of the Western jo21
yang-ming midway through the Ming
Dynasty we're going to revisit a couple
topics previously discussed namely the
II Ching and Taoism those episodes were
pretty ancient themselves so I'm
freshening them up a little and we'll
take that old wine and pour it into
these new bottles I picked up at a yard
sale and I will make them part of this
whole series before we get into the
first part of our story I wanted to say
that the backdrop for all this history
was the Cho dynasty we always hear about
how old China is and this is pretty much
the farthest back you can go in recorded
Chinese history other than all the
bronze where iron ware and other relics
made from inorganic materials not much
from that time survived down to our day
the Chinese invented paper but Thailand
wouldn't launch the paper industry till
the first century of the Common Era and
all these works from these Jo era
thinkers that bear their name the louts
of the Hmong censored Wong's
leads mort's Han fades how much of that
material can accurately be attributed to
each philosopher
if any of it the earliest works that
have survived so far we're all dug out
of han dynasty tombs all these texts
that scholars said contain the words of
Confucius and other masters ran the
gauntlet of 25
five centuries of argument and
reinterpretation did we even get one
percent of what these classical
philosophers actually said and for those
who can't read classical Chinese and
have to read these ancient texts in a
foreign language I wonder how much of
the beauty subtleties and perhaps true
meaning behind a lot of attacks got
papered over and translation fun yo LAN
mentioned something interesting he said
quote religion was to other
civilizations what philosophy was to
China and quote describing religion is
simply philosophy that contains
superstitions dogmas rituals and
institutions humanism ven button to e s
what Confucius and other Chinese
philosophers mainly concerned themselves
with matters of a metaphysical nature
not so much not at the beginning anyway
what mattered most in Chinese philosophy
was worldly affairs and the role of
humans and the big picture though there
was plenty that was spiritual and
mystical about Chinese philosophy
especially where Taoism was concerned
practical matters such as ethics morals
and Nate human knowledge and politics
figured most highly amongst all the
great thinkers now I know not everyone
who listens to the CHP is a westerner
but I wanted to get this out of the way
at the start of the program when the
Analects and other classical works made
their way to Europe they were most
warmly received what an eye-opener that
was for the intellectuals in the day
that these works even found their way to
Europe was thanks to the Jesuit fathers
in China most prominently Ruggieri Ricci
solve on Bell and verb East when they
began to crack that nut and learn the
language and study the ancient texts for
the first time Western readers got to
hear these names like Kong food sue and
Monza and these Jesuits latinized the
names into Confucius and monks to allow
Europeans to better know them so thanks
to these Jesuits and all their heavy
lifting learning the language and
translating the ancient texts that were
available to the
all the great minds of the Enlightenment
got to be the first generation of people
in the West to read how these Chinese
philosophers preached loving thy
neighbor as thyself
and doing unto others as you would like
them to do unto you centuries before
these words could be read in Matthew
7:12 dinner Oh had written up the
Chinese quote these peoples are superior
to all other Asiatics and antiquity art
intellect wisdom policy and in their
taste for philosophy end quote
Voltaire he wrote quote the body of this
Empire has existed for thousand years
without having undergone any sensible
alteration in its laws customs language
or even in its fashions of apparel the
organization of this Empire is in truth
the best that the world has ever seen
end quote yeah Dee's enlightenment
greats really put China on a pedestal of
course they all lived during the glory
years of the Ching no one was saying
that in the late 19th century as we make
our way through this series I'll bring
to your attention all the most important
works and just mention a little bit
about them some like to learn you or the
Analects of Confucius the monks of the
trunks that doubt the Jing of course
those are the most famous and are quoted
most often along with winces art of war
which we won't cover in this series but
there were many others as well these
texts are all filled with poems
dialogues chronologies pronouncements
aphorisms parables diagrams you name it
some like the drones the so-called
second book of the doll stand on their
own merits as works of literature even
in translation the common golden thread
that seems to run through every
philosopher from yuud's to Wang Yang
Ming seems to always boil down to the
question of how should someone live
their life so that it's a worthwhile one
our humans predisposed towards good or
evil and how should we
the sovereign down to the village nobody
how should we treat each other how
should we organize ourselves and live
together with the hopes that our conduct
and way of thinking will cause there to
be no need for punishments or war poured
into the foundation of classical Chinese
philosophy were the stories and deeds of
the greatest of China's ancient sage
kings and from the earliest times the
figures who were lionized more than any
other and who Confucius himself held up
as the living ideals for what it meant
to be a sage ruler were three mythical
Emperor's Yong Chun and you and three
figures we know lived kings when and his
two sons King Wu and Jo comb the Duke of
Cho in all the thousands of years there
were so many great emperors and leaders
and people from history but those six
they didn't live to see it but all of
them singly or collectively became a
metaphor in Chinese culture and history
for what it meant to contain all the
virtues in spades and to be considered a
sage ruler as far as y'all chuan and you
were concerned
despite their mythical status in our day
the Jo dynasty historian said they were
in fact real and wrote with great
certainty about who they were and when
they lived but somach yen was as far
away from the time of Yao
yes he was from our day Confucius had
said of y'all quote concerning the good
Yao it is said that he ruled China for
100 years
the years of his life being 110 and 6 he
was kind and benevolent as heaven wise
and discerning as the gods from afar his
radiance was like a shining cloud and
approaching near him he was as brilliant
as the Sun rich was he without
ostentation and regal without
luxuriousness he wore a yellow cap and a
dark tunic and rode in a red chariot
drawn by white horses the eaves of his
thatch were not trimmed and the rafters
were on
laned while the beams of his house had
no ornamental ends his principal food
was soup indifferently compounded nor
was he choice in selecting his grain he
drank his broth of lentils from a dish
that was made of clay using a wooden
spoon his person was not adorned with
jewels and his clothes were without
embroidery simple and without variety he
gave no attention to uncommon things and
strange happenings nor did he value
those things that were rare and peculiar
he did not listen to songs of dalliance
his chariot of state was not emblazoned
in summer he wore his simple garb of
cotton and in winter he covered himself
with skins of the deer yet he was the
richest the wisest the longest lived and
the most beloved of all that have a
rural China end quote
we can see from the earliest times when
recorded history was just in its infancy
already the lines were being drawn about
what qualities were good and what was
decent and what was not Confucius held
y'all up as a model why he was playing
practical had his two feet planted on
the ground wasn't swayed by luxuries and
comforts was devoid of selfish desires
she can see clearly on already what is
good is being defined this standard for
what constitutes human decency was
starting to be more clearly defined even
back then it was considered good taste
and good form to live and act modestly
not ostentatious ly so then what was bad
if yow chuan and you were held up by
many philosophers as Paragons of virtue
who were the examples to avoid well
Confucius and later generations would
point at two kings and these two were
among the earliest villains and Chinese
history they been mentioned before in
previous CHP episodes Kings gia of sha
and Joe of Shang were held up is
essentially the opposite of what could
be said of Yao
these two were the poster boys of wicked
kings in Chinese history geez time on
this earth is traditionally pegged at
1728 1625 BCE the time of Hammurabi
Babylon and the Jewish exodus from Egypt
and the later Hyksos invasion of that
land the other one Joe or Joshi
he was the last ruler of the Shang both
of these kings were remembered for their
decadence that was only surpassed by
their depravity cruelty and inattention
to the demands of their job and the
needs of their people they were both in
the same league as Caligula Caligula's
signature outrageous stunts I guess
making his horse council of Rome for
King Chia of sha it was a torture device
designed by one of his people to
entertain his sadistic and demanding
concubine Moshe a person would get
inserted into a metallic cannon like
cylinder that was roasted atop a heap of
white coals and one of the rest I leave
to your imagination King Joe Sheen too
had a sadistic concubine he was trying
to please and in doing so was
immortalized with the construction of
the legendary jocha rollin the wine pool
and meat forest one of Chinese history's
great legends of licentiousness and
debauchery these two kings gia and Joe
they were the gifts that kept on giving
over the centuries
not only for Confucius to point to but
other philosophers and politicians as
well gia and Joe they too got to become
meta furs but not in their own lifetimes
so the spectrum of excellence to
ignominy ran from y'all to Joe and then
there was everything else in between
later the great thinkers of the Han
Dynasty will come up with a notion of
ten Ming or the Mandate of Heaven and
when the ruler was more of a yawl than a
Joe heaven determined them fit to rule
and this mandate was manifested in all
kinds of positive ways and if the ruler
turned out to be more of a gia or a Joe
heaven cut them loose by demonstrating
its displeasure through any number of
natural disasters or as
dynamical phenomena all these stories
who knows what's true or not this is
what tradition tells us this yah
the Shang this was all prelude to the Jo
and the Jo dynasty that's where the Big
Bang happens for Chinese philosophy and
for three centuries or so in this
longest of all Chinese dynasties comes
the first part of our story
in 1949 big year in Chinese history that
was German philosopher Karl Jasper's
1883 1969 he came up with this theory
about an oxen site or axial age that
took place in civilization stretching
from the Mediterranean to the East China
Sea from about the 8th to the 3rd
centuries BCE jasper's had pointed out
that living in different places
completely unawares of one another all
at the same time period we're not just
Confucius Lao Tzu moths Kwanzaa and
leeet's
but also Pythagoras Socrates Plato
Aristotle Homer and in India Hinduism
and Jainism were thriving Gautama Buddha
was also walking around India
Zoroaster was teaching in Persia in fact
the year of Zorah rosters death was the
heir Confucius was born in the Holy Land
these were the times of the prophets
Elijah Isaiah Jeremiah I mean it was a
very tight bandwidth when all these
people lived that was the marquee fact
of Jasper's theory of the axial age
these philosophers and founders of
religions arguably the first great
thinkers produced by their respective
ancient civilizations all had their
moments on this earth pretty much about
the same time the lives of Confucius and
the Buddha only twelve years apart Karl
Jasper's said it this way quote the
spiritual foundations of humanity were
laid simultaneously and independently in
China India Persia Judea and Greece and
these are the foundations upon which
humanity
still subsists today end quote whether
or not Jasper's theory is true we can't
know for sure does have its critics but
surviving texts clearly show the most
relevant issues that face human beings
wherever they congregate in large
numbers were being pondered and argued
by all these thinkers and all these
places at about the same time for the
first time so when did China's
philosophers make their first appearance
in the Chinese philosophy history
timeline nothing of great significance
happened until the Jo dynasty started
breaking up in the late 8th century BCE
the date for the demise of the Western
Jo is usually pegged at 771 BCE when the
ruling family was chased out of the
capital in their present day she on they
fled to Hunan province where law Jung is
today and thence began the eastern jo
dynasty
that's where everything really starts
the first half of the eastern jo was
called the Spring and Autumn Period and
the second half well that was a violence
blood-dripping time in Chinese history
it's known as the warring States Period
when the final phase of this Jon washer
dye came there were seven states left
standing from what were once dozens
during the Western Cho and by 221 BCE
there was only one the Qin state led at
the time by King Jung Jung much better
known as the first emperor of China Qin
Shihuang we'll look at the Qin later on
for now let's sit back and make
ourselves comfortable as we look at the
Jo dynasty farmer and ladder and see how
all the ingredients in China were just
right for this explosion of philosophic
thought trying to scrape together enough
grains of pre Confucian philosophy isn't
an easy thing to do
yeah there's fragments of writings and
inscriptions that have been uncovered
but but most of the time
know for sure who said what and even
when we have something we're not sure
what its intended meaning is the
farthest back I was able to go was to
the very genesis of the Jo dynasty to
the days of the venerable King one and
his two sons the older King rule and
younger Jo comb the duke of jo like
yao-shan and you this Trinity from the
founding years the Jo are held up as the
epitome of benevolence and virtue and a
ruler they did no wrong this is all
around 11th century BCE kinguin lived
from 1152 to 1056 around that time lived
a man named use jung who posterity has
referred to as master Yu or our youth we
know if you'd be cuz some fragments of
his writing appeared later on in history
and a number of ancient classics and
compendium such as the book of Han and
in the Ching dynasty Qianlong Emperor's
encyclopedia to end all encyclopedias
the Saku chen xiu just to name a couple
and not just use of quite a few
philosophers are only remembered in the
fragments of their teachings that
managed to be saved commented on and
then mercifully inserted into some
collection that kept the work alive
now we're only hearing this on suma
Chen's authority but youth who came from
Jingzhou and who bei served as the
washer for the first five Jo Kings the
washer was a ceremonial post at the
royal court that involved anything
having to do with fire say back then
rituals and I carried a lot of weight
and much faith was placed in them so his
role was significant at the time he was
also referred to as a teacher and
adviser to the ruling Chi clan the
founders of the Cho dynasty youths had
previously been in the employ of the
Shang rulers but defected to the Gees
and served them till his last days he
was supposedly used who was the first to
say
who pronounces fame has no sorrow he is
a he's not a household name in Chinese
history or even Chinese philosophy for
that matter his philosophy is hard to
discern no surprise there he wrote about
constant changes and the cycles of the
universe and nature his 22 chapter work
called the youths of is slotted in the
proto Taoist category not exactly Taoism
but no not anything else either but he
also touched on certain matters that
would be discussed argued and debated
for centuries after he left his earthly
form those concerned what made a ruler
fit to rule how to reward and punish
what made good politics nothing profound
but as I mentioned scholars in the later
Jo and in the Han considered uses words
of sufficient enough imports to keep his
memory and scans content alive and the
collected works they compiled for
posterity you know it's a miracle we
have as much history of Chinese
philosophy as we do more got lost than
discovered and we could only imagine how
many Confucius's didn't make it past the
Jo or the Han before their work was lost
and their lives forgotten this next
person I wanted to mention he's he's not
really called a philosopher as much as
he was a statesman I'm reluctant to pass
up he who was of such great importance
that Confucius said of him if an ad and
a bid for the gifts conferred to the
Chinese people by Guanzhong we'd all be
a bunch of barbarians Guanzhong lived
from 722 645 BCE Confucius was born 94
years after Guanzhong his death so he
was an immediate beneficiary of guan
jones many contributions to political
order laws Chinese culture and to
philosophy as well Guangzhou is
remembered for many things he's of
course been mentioned in previous CHP
episodes historically he was the Prime
Minister too
Duke one of the state of Chi Chi Quan
Gong the first of the hegemon hands
these head Germans were sort of like
Prima center Paris for all feudal lords
who swore fealty to the Joe King he
spoke for them all and had the muscle
power to give orders and maintain some
semblance of order between all these
future warring states as Joe Gong is
held up as the ultimate example of the
perfect Regent so Guanzhong is equally
esteemed as the perfect Prime Minister
or right hand to the ruler with
Guangzhou at his side
Duke Wong's Qi state became the most
powerful force in Cho Dynasty China
under Guanzhong steady guidance China
transitioned from the Bronze Age to the
Iron Age
he put the Chi fiscal house in order and
got the entire state firing on all
cylinders militarily culturally and
administrative Lee he helped establish a
legal code that would well incorrectly
put him in the same pot as the legalists
pantheon Lisa but he would have been
more of a Confucian as than a legalist
under guan zhong the whole concept of
the Chinese gentleman began to take
shape not the British version of what
constitutes a gent this is the Chinese
Jin's a man of noble character of virtue
an ideal man whose character embodied
the virtue of benevolence and whose acts
were in accordance with the rites and
with rightness if I may quote the
magnificent plea ko app Guan Jones jinsa
didn't have to come from the money to
privilege class no big deal to hear that
in 2017 but back in the early 7th
century BCE that was a new and
revolutionary idea being and acting in
accordance with all that being a gin
cement it became like a religion to the
aristocracy and this emerging group and
is Jasper's Axial Age gathered speed it
was guan zhong who got the pitch ready
in china
what was to follow with the likes of
loud Confucius and all their disciples
during Guan Jones time Qi state became
the model for this new and sophisticated
land of opportunity where people could
come to and study under the patronage of
the ruling house she had become the
first of these states to attract
scholars and to patronize them and you
know as they said later on in history
created the environment where a hundred
flowers can bloom and a hundred schools
of thought might contend the atmosphere
for stimulating this kind of
philosophical and intellectual
discussion developed much quicker in the
wake of Guanzhong and we'll see next
chapter the preeminent intellectual
institution in ancient China will get
built there in Qi state the history of
Chinese philosophy really had its
beginnings right when the political
center broke down and the Jo Dynasty
Kings lost their power once that
gravitational force was lost it became a
long hard slog lasting centuries were
the more powerful devoured the less
mighty as I said what were once dozens
of these states and statelets
eventually got whittled down to seven
and then these seven would beat the
you-know-what out of each other for
generations on end it was a it was a
miserable time and swearing loyalty to
many of these vanquished feudal lords
who didn't make it to the final seven
who no longer had anyone to lord it over
were these hereditary Warriors Knights
they weren't your average army grunts
these were educated men and these
suddenly unemployed Knights became known
in English anyway as Knights errant in
account and the old French means
wandering so a wandering knight like a
Japanese Ronin and Mandarin they were
known as the shirt or just the shirt
class and these Knights errant grew in
numbers very quickly as more of them
found themselves on their own
due to the defeats of their Lord these
Chinese Knights errant they became the
heroes glorified in all the jinyoung
wushan novels samaa Chen put these guys
on a pedestal I mean they were Noble
totally selfless ready to dive in and
help the oppressed or peasant and
distress and as I said they were they
were educated and had studied the
classics of their time and were schooled
in all the major ceremonies and rituals
yeah there's been a million movies made
about these heroes these shirt or shirt
along with other educated Nobles were
the class that evolved into the ROO
school of philosophers are you Confucius
belong in this category in English we
say Confucianism but nobody uses that
word in China this school of thought
that included Confucianism and others
formed the ROO school when you look up
in the dictionary and it just says it
means Confucianism but in more ancient
times it meant a scholar or learned
person the shirt or scholar officials
made up the core base of the rule class
you could consider them the lowest of
those who made up the top layers of
society these former Knights were the
ones who worked that layer of middle and
lower level civil bureaucrats in the
government your average Joe dynasty
civil servant so in the century
following all that Guanzhong had laid
the groundwork for while in the employ
of Duke one of Qi spraying these rueful
ASSA furs and which Confucius was just
one of many
they became teachers when education
became a path to social mobility people
of talent now for the first time in
China had this potential yellow brick
road to greener pastures even if their
relative wasn't a noble education became
the fast track to the good time yeah
once the Western Joe ended though the
good times began to appear farther and
farther away and China's historical rare
view mayor
life became very bumpy and unpredictable
and that's when people began to start
discussing and arguing it was the best
way to get out of this mess back then
they believed in a top-down approach and
that it all began with the ruler so
amidst all the unpleasantness up and
down the Yellow River Valley people
began to have these discussions they
discuss very weighty matters like what
makes the best ruler
how shall we organize ourselves so that
harmony is achieved what was the best
system of government all pretty boring
and simple stuff in our day but back
then when all these ideas were fresh new
and without precedent it was a very big
deal
because of the ancient texts and oral
histories passed on from earlier times
people knew there was a period in China
when peace was enjoyed by everyone and
the Kings were virtuous the country
prospered now it was just the opposite
it was every feudal lord for himself and
some serious debate started happening
about where the washa people and their
civilization should go from here into
this state of affairs that define the
sixth century BCE in China stepped all
the names we know and love Lord Sun
Confucius most notably and these two
great thinkers before they left this
earth gave posterity plenty to think
about as far as how to deal with these
tumultuous times in the eastern Joe and
that is the set up for next episode
we're gonna look at a few of these
dozens and dozens of schools of thought
that became known as the bite gia or
hundred schools we'll examine the life
and times of a few of these philosophers
during the time of Confucius also much
later on in part six actually we'll also
review the life and times of Lao Tzu and
the beginnings of Taoism we still have a
long and pleasant way to go before we
reach the Ming Dynasty I hope you'll
stick with the program let me say a
brief word about sources I don't want to
give any trade secrets away or anything
but the standard drill here at the CHP
is well I buy all these books on Amazon
with my Amex points and
I also have a somewhat comprehensive
Chinese history library now use the
internet a lot google books bits and
pieces of this and that from a bunch of
websites scattered all over but as any
researcher will tell you all sources are
not created equal the big one for me
first and foremost was funny hlins
junghwa java later published in english
as a short history of chinese philosophy
Fung Yeol on man he's not a household
name history books left him out he came
to the u.s. in 1919 on a boxer's
indemnity scholarship and later studied
philosophy under John Dewey Fung lived
from 1895 to 1990s he got to take in
quite a lot of Chinese history he did so
much to popularize Chinese philosophy at
a time when it had become all but
forgotten in the 20th century many
fingers pointed at Confucianism as the
ontological cause for so many of China's
failings going back to the Treaty of
Nanjing then along came this book and it
brought a lot of people back to the
study of China's great thinkers Fung
worked tirelessly to show how Chinese
philosophy ancient though it was still
mattered and was still relevant in our
modern age if you're not familiar with
this book and if by chance the series
piques your interest sufficiently enough
I would recommend anyone to start here
Fung Yolen a short history of Chinese
philosophy Brian W van Norton's
introduction to classical Chinese
philosophy was also useful Will Durant
had quite a bit to say about Chinese
philosophy I love that guy will and
Ariel Durant the story of civilization
that gave me a nice big picture view of
the history my stall worked for anything
that happened in China between 900 and
1800 Frederick W moats Imperial China he
came in handy for the part of
neo-confucianism as far as Internet
resources go now the Google took me all
over the place
there are internet encyclopedias
scholarly papers in English and Chinese
articles and journals labor of love
websites videos the amount of available
resources out there to wallow in are
quite plentiful I'll also mention
Harvard professor Michael poets and
Kristine gross lows book the path that
will come in the final episode I also
got quite a bit of mileage out of John
Minford translation and commentary on
the e Jing the essential translation of
the ancient Chinese Oracle and Book of
Wisdom the addition I have came out on
penguin and 2015 richard j smith's the
eaching a biography also very
informative that's part of the lives of
great religious books from Princeton
University Press so until the next time
and I promise I won't keep you waiting
six months this is your friendly and
humble host Lazlo Montgomery signing off
from a secret location somewhere in the
metro Los Angeles area part two next
week be there or be square thanks
everyone for tuning in after such a long
break - and I look forward to spending
40 or 50 minutes with you next time for
another exciting episode of the China
history podcast
you